hey folks D from Evolution Unleashed
today we're going to take a first look
at Mid Journey's new Alpha their
web-based platform for those who unaware
mid journey is a text to image generator
and generally considered the best when
it comes to photo realism which is
pretty cool now you got darly if you
want to create fun images but when you
need to get a bit more serious M journey
is the way to go but up to now you had
to use Discord which was a real pain one
a lot of people don't know how to use
Discord two you had to type imagine
prompt it was a little bit manual and
then finding all your images was quite
challenging so let's go see what's up
today we got a special email yesterday
happy Easter for me as an experienced
user who's created more than a thousand
images with midj journey yeah we get a
bit carried away you have Early Access
to create images on our website we've
built a place where you can create in a
flow state and be inspired by the
community to start creating signin at
the new website type your prompt into
the Imagine bar and hit enter your
images will appear in the create menu on
the left it's still a work in progress
but we wanted to let you try it first
click on the video so if you want to see
all the new features you can but I'd
much rather just go play so here you go
here is the new MID Journey I've been
playing I'll show you some of these
images but first let's look at the
interface I'm in dark mode I really
really do not like this red so we can
always flick back to light mode the
Red's a lot easier to see and much
easier on the eye I'm a dark mode kind
of guy but I think for today we'll just
stick with the light mode okay so in the
explore menu like when you go to their
website you can see all the Creations
that people are making and and you have
a lot of options you can right click
like the image you can use the prompt
you can use the image in your prompt or
you can use the reference styles that it
did very cool images
here uh so great way to sort of get
inspiration and
learn how to prompt mid journey to get
these type of images anyway that's your
explore menu so that's what they mean by
Community we'll have a look at the
prompt interface so you can zoom it down
now it's a bit strange there's no enter
button so when you put a prompt in uh
there's no way to enter it okay so you
have to just press enter now you can
press the plus and that will bring up
your choose uh a file if you want to
copy an image or use their new you know
similar commands to make it look like
the same but we're not going to play
with that we're just wanting to sort of
have a look at their uh interface today
so you can see you've got portrait
square a landscape and within each
there's four four sizes 1 2 3 four five
of those one Square 1 2 3 four five okay
so it's five of each so that's some
pretty cool sort of uh sizing that
you've got pretty much everything you
need much easier than having to type
Dash Dash 4 by3 or D- AR for aspect
ratio which is the old Discord command
so now you don't need that you've still
got your style your d-s so you can play
around with that it's defaults to 100
weirdness the new sort of thing explore
unconventional Aesthetics with the
experimental weedness parameter this
introduces quirky and offbeat qualities
to generated images resulting in unique
and unexpected outcomes we'll keep that
down and then variety this influences
how vary the initial image grids are
high values will produce more unusual
and unexpected results in compositions
lower values have more reliable
repeatable results and you've got relax
fast or Turbo we're going to play with
turbo because it is incredibly fast so
pretty simple uh you can go standard raw
we'll just stick with standard you can
choose your mid Journey uh I think six
makes a lot of sense gosh can't wait
till they do video and then uh you know
you can just enter in a prompt so if you
go to your create menu here this is one
thing I actually really like about what
they've done you very easily see all
your Generations okay even all your old
ones are here as well so you can see I
like to play with Studios like this
it's how I create them I have a resource
for creating these studios in mid
Journey I'll drop it down in the
description but what I did to Showcase
sort of how it works you can have a look
I've just been using the same prompt a
man walking through an urban jungle I
changed it to park with his golden
Labrador and I've just tried different
styles over here I've got a style guide
I'll drop that in the description and
comments as well and you can see there
are just so many really cool ways to
rest stylize we want to have a look at
how that works so we've been
using um some different ones so this one
is futurism and dream core and you can
just use the left and right arrows to
scroll through the generations you can
also see here on the right you can now
just scroll up and down and anything
that jumps out you can just click on
which is pretty cool now not hugely
intuitive but this little X up the
corner is how you get back to this menu
okay there's some cool other features so
if we have a look at this one for
example uh same thing but this time
we're just using futurism and synth wave
which is cool we can scroll through
those so let's say we like this one we
want to vary it we can just go very
strong and we'll get four new ones
you'll see over in the create you can
also see them being made right before
your eyes and they'll be at the top of
your list and you can see this turbo
mode is very fast and now we've got our
four variations of of that image which I
think is really really cool okay again
not the most intuitive interface
especially not having an a Go Button you
have to press enter we'll show you that
so we've been experimenting with just
sort of different styles so you can see
you know uh kugi and ink drawing you get
some cool stuff you know so you can
blend and mix Styles use your
imagination this is how I drive uh these
things rather than trying to get too
complex The Prompt I just throw some
Styles in to give it the kind of look
and feel I want and as I said we've got
hundreds and hundreds of styles here
that you can choose
from okay and again you've got some
other stuff you can upscale let's use
creative upscale for that one and you'll
see immediately over in my create menu
that will be creating at the top of my
list you can remix let's remix it as
well uh you can use pan if you want to
change the angle expand out left right
up or down you can zoom you can change
the aspect ratio and more you can rerun
and so on so it's cool cool
functionality and what I like is it's
very close I don't like that you have to
close this menu all the time and you
have to click what are we doing that's
just stuck on the remix oh that just put
the prompt up there well we're learning
okay we're learning
so we would just take out the
AR and this is our remix so we might
change it the setting rather than an
urban path
we might have them walking through a uh
Carnival okay so if you want to remix
you'll get the same style and when you
have to actually press enter to make it
go there's literally no go button it is
an alpha and then we can scroll to the
top and you can see here's our
generation so this is our upscale that
we were doing the creative upscale it's
still
upscaling so you can see up scaling
there again you got to use that little
X interesting huh I'm quite impressed
okay so here's the we just Chang it to
the carnival setting in that same style
pretty cool similar style so that's
style is a really cool way to have a
similar look and feel you can just
change the scene right so still this guy
with his Labrador the guy changes a
little in each one but you know you'll
be able to create plenty you'll see when
I show you all of the
variations all the cool stuff you can
do now if you don't add a style you just
let it do its own you'll just get
something very photographic oh my
goodness I have no idea that looks like
two dogs blended into one horrific we
won't look too
carefully uh I guess that's why they
give you four so you don't get too
Disturbed but here's some other cool
stuff so uh come off
this and when you see a style that you
like here let's say I want to reuse this
one here which is pretty cool so that's
cartoon and comic book I don't know if I
can zoom in yeah zooming in doesn't
really make a difference that's a bit
better okay so let's say I like this one
so what you can do is either click use
and bang it puts it up into the prompt
so we can change that as well um so a
man walking through a busy Market okay
and obviously we've already set that but
you can then go and let's add a bit of
weirdness uh let's lower the variety
let's up the stylization just for fun
and again no go button so we'll just
come back up here and press enter bit
weird and then it doesn't disappear so
you have to manually
close uh
cool so it'll be available to everyone
soon according to that message right so
again at the top here is our style being
remixed with the Labrador through the
garden remember this is comic book
art very cool very cool uh I don't know
where the guy is but there's two
Labradors this time okay and look at
that face my
goodness yeah AI still got a ways to go
folks the good news is there's plenty of
room for improvement but again good
prompting helps these are pretty lazy
prompts that I'm using again to get rid
of that and then I love that you can
just see all of this so that's really
just a quick first look you got some
other stuff here we'll have to zoom back
out so rating images is where you can
rate images the highest rated images win
free processing hours and whatnot uh you
can rate ideas so if you want you know
uh let's just say it would be great if
there was a go button on the prompt
interface right something simple so they
may not have thought of that it's pretty
obviously press enter there's a help
menu the latest releases all that sort
of stuff so it's pretty
cool and so on so yeah I like that all
your images are together and it's very
easy you can very quickly find one you
can rerun you can use you can hide if
you don't like them you can download
them you can report if they're dodgy or
something's wrong you can copy them or
you can send them through to your
Discord uh but that feature doesn't seem
to be working working Discord URL not
available maybe something in my settings
I haven't really played that deep but
this was just a first look at the new
Alpha and as you can see it gives you a
lot more ability to see your Creations
if we come over and just show you the
old Discord so uh I have my own bot
here helps if I press the right one okay
so uh you can see here it doesn't save
any of those ones to my Discord but look
how hard it is to go and find your
images you got to scroll so much uh now
of
course with the web it's just all there
so much better and what I like is all
your old ones are there too so you can
go and uh very quickly sort of by date
see where everything is that you've
created and so on so you know see some
of the stuff I've been doing okay that
is your first look at Mid Journey Alpha
not sure if that's uh that revolutionary
but it is much better to be able to see
all your work uh the interface will
needs some work the UI having go buttons
the dark mode with that red is pretty
garish but hey it is what it is another
step forward where mid Journey have
realized that they need to be a bit more
accessible to compete with chat GPT
idiogram these other image generators
that are really going up popularity
where it's just magic promp and you type
what you want it reforms your prompt and
sends it through to the image generator
mid Journey you need to have a bit more
technical skill and image generation but
we have some free guides in our
community to getting started with mid
Journey I'll drop those links as well
and that's it for today hope you've
enjoyed a quick look at Mid Journey see
you in the next one peace